IUCN Important Marine Mammal Area (IMMA) Geographical Information System (GIS) Dataset User Licence Agreement
Dated October 2021 Version Release (please contact the IMMA Data Coordinator at www.marinemammalhabitat.org/contacts for updated versions of this document outside of the stated year of release).
About the IMMA GIS Dataset
The IUCN Joint SSC/WCPA Marine Mammal Protected Areas Task Force or 'IUCN-MMPATF' maintains a GIS dataset of Important Marine Mammal Areas (IMMA) around the world. This dataset is drawn from knowledge provided directly to the IUCN MMPATF IMMA Secretariat by experts but may also include some data consolidated from 3rd party sources where other information may not have been available. These areas have been assessed by regional experts and were further assessed by a panel of independent reviewers. Where possible the IUCN MMPATF has included a polygon for each IMMA sub-region, which has been independently assessed across separate regional expert identification workshops (dated 31.10.21). 
The IMMA GIS dataset compiled by the IUCN MMPATF is usually made available on request under a User Licence Agreement for non-commercial use in a Shapefile (.shp) format to use in GIS mapping software (other formats may be available upon request). Full terms of use (including the definition of non-commercial use) are available below. For commercial use, please contact the IMMA Data Coordinator for further conditions of use at www.marinemammalhabitat.org/contacts.
IMMA GIS Dataset Citation 
Before using the IMMA Dataset read and accept the terms of use, disclaimer and errors and omissions statement below. In particular, please note that the data cannot be used for commercial purposes, passed on to third parties, or republished. Full and appropriate acknowledgement is required in any materials or publications derived from the data. For any publications making substantial use of the data the IUCN MMPATF welcomes the opportunity for co-authorship, collaboration, and to comment prior to publication. 
* For single IMMA polygon use in all publications please use the following Citation:
IUCN-MMPATF, <Year of Publication>, <Name of IMMA>, Global Dataset of Important Marine Mammal Areas (IUCN-IMMA). <Insert month/year of the release version accessed or downloaded>. Made available under agreement on terms and conditions of use by the IUCN Joint SSC/WCPA Marine Mammal Protected Areas Task Force and accessible via the IMMA e-Atlas http://www.marinemammalhabitat.org/imma-eatlas/   
For example: IUCN MMPATF (2018) Hellenic Trench IMMA, Global Dataset of Important Marine Mammal Areas (IUCN-IMMA). December 2018. Made available under agreement on terms of use by the IUCN Joint SSC/WCPA Marine Mammal Protected Areas Task Force and made available at www.marinemammalhabitat.org/imma-eatlas 
* For multiple IMMA polygons, including regional or global IMMA Network datasets, for use in all publications please use the following Citation:
IUCN MMPATF <Insert year of release version publication> Global Dataset of Important Marine Mammal Areas (IUCN-IMMA). <Insert month/year of the release version accessed or downloaded>. Made available under agreement on terms and conditions of use by the IUCN Joint SSC/WCPA Marine Mammal Protected Areas Task Force and accessible via the IMMA e-Atlas http://www.marinemammalhabitat.org/imma-eatlas   
For example: IUCN MMPATF (2018) Global Dataset of Important Marine Mammal Areas (IUCN-IMMA). December 2018. Made available under agreement on terms of use by the IUCN Joint SSC/WCPA Marine Mammal Protected Areas Task Force and made available at www.marinemammalhabitat.org/imma-eatlas 
 


Terms of Use
1. The data are supplied only for the purposes for the purposes of scientific research, education, or conservation. 
2. The recipient of the data will provide a full and appropriate acknowledgement and citation in any materials or publications derived in part or in whole from the data, using the relevant citation details as provided. For any publications making substantial use of the data, the IUCN MMPATF welcomes the opportunity for co-authorship, collaboration and to comment prior to publication. Expressions of interest can be sent to the IMMA Data Coordinator at www.marinemammalhabitat.org/contacts 
3. Reproduction of the dataset or products derived from it, either whole or in part, for commercial purposes is prohibited without prior written permission of the IUCN-MMPATF. For the purposes of these Terms of Use, "commercial purposes" means a) any use by, on behalf of, or to inform or assist the activities of, a commercial entity (an entity that operates 'for profit') or b) use by any non-profit entity for the purposes of revenue generation. If you require permission please contact the IMMA Data Coordinator or by writing to the Co-chairs of the IUCN MMPATF at www.marinemammalhabitat.org/contacts
4. The recipient will only use the data provided for the purpose for which it was originally requested, and if subsequent or different use is required the recipient must contact the IMMA Data Coordinator or Co-chairs of the IUCN MMPATF again for written approval.
5. The recipient will not pass the original datasets provided on to third parties and will direct all requests for use of the data back to the IUCN-MMPATF.
6. The recipient will not publish the data in their original format, either whole or in part, on a website, FTP site, CD, memory stick or any other media. Should the recipient utilise assets contained within the dataset they should provide a link to the original data source location on the IUCN MMPATF website www.marinemammalhabitat.org where appropriate.
7. The recipient may only pass on datasets derived from the data supplied by the IUCN MMPATF if these derived data are supplied with the same terms of use.
8. Use of these data does not constitute endorsement by the IUCN MMPATF of any derived products, reports, or analyses. The IUCN MMPATF logo must not be used on any derived products, reports or analyses, or supporting materials, without express written permission.
9. The IUCN MMPATF reserves the right to comment on the accuracy of representation of the data in material produced by a recipient.
10. The GIS data are provided with additional supporting metadata, describing how they were compiled, ownership, type and quality of data, and limitations. The recipient must read all supporting information prior to any analysis or graphical representation in maps or figures, and agree to abide by any stipulations contained therein. Where appropriate, the IUCN MMPATF can provide additional guidance on request to aid in the correct use and interpretation of the data. IUCN MMPATF endeavours to maintain accurate and up-to-date data at all times, but can accept no responsibility for the consequences of errors or omissions in the data, for misuse of the data by any organisation or individual, or for any damage done to computing systems into which the data are entered (see Disclaimer below).
11. At least one electronic copy of all products published using data supplied by the IUCN MMPATF will be sent, free of charge, to the IUCN MMPATF Task Force IMMA Data Coordinator and Co-chairs www.marinemammalhabitat.org/contacts/

Disclaimer

The IUCN MMPATF makes no warranties or representations, express or implied, regarding the use of the material appearing in this dataset with regard to their correctness, reliability, accuracy, or otherwise. This extends to the representation of both marine mammal species distribution and towards the representation of coastlines along the edge of all datasets provided. The material and geographic designations in this dataset do not imply the expressions of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the IUCN MMPATF concerning the legal status of any country, territory or area, nor concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Neither the IUCN MMPATF nor any affiliated experts, related entities, or content providers shall be responsible or liable to any person, firm or corporation for any loss, damage, injury, claim or liability of any kind or character based on or resulting from any information contained in the dataset. the IUCN MMPATF may update or make changes to the data provided at any time without notice; however, the IUCN MMPATF makes no commitment to update the information contained therein.

Errors and Omissions
The IUCN MMPATF shall endeavour to maintain accurate and up-to-date data at all times. However, if errors or omissions are identified, the user should notify the IUCN MMPATF so that any errors or omissions can be corrected in future releases of the data. Users can contact the IUCN MMPATF IMMA Data Coordinator.
Contacts: www.marinemammalhabitat.org/contacts/
Postal Address: IMMA Programme - Tethys Research Institute c/o Acquario Civico
Viale G.B. Gadio 2 20121 Milano, Italy

